£ŽŽŽŽŽŽ                                                          ŽŽŽŽŽŽ¨ 
3                                                                      3 
3                                                                      3 
                        ANOTHER WORLD WALK-THRU 
 
                                 by: 
 
3                          Piston and Skyin                            3 
3                              04/15/92                                3 
…ŽŽŽŽŽŽ                                                          ŽŽŽŽŽŽ— 
 
 
For those of you who can't figure out how to finish this one (or don't 
want to spend the time), here's a few helpful hints. 
 
Scene 1 
------- 
     
    After the nice lab explosion, you appear in a water filled pit  
on another world.  Press up to swim to the top and up and right to  
get out.  Go right and kill all those little beasties in the next  
two screens.  Then keep going right.  At about halfway thru the  
third screen over from the water, a beast will appear.  Run left and  
just keep running.  At the ledge, jump on the rope.  You'll swing  
back right.  Now keep running right.  After you run into the alien,  
just watch and do nothing. 
 
Scene 2 - HTDC 
------- 
 
    OK, now your in a cage.  Start swinging left and right.  After  
it lands on the alien, pick up his gun.  Run two screens right and  
kill the alien.  Move to the right side of the screen and shoot two  
aliens as they come from the left.  Then go to the next screen to  
the right, and your bud should be trying to open the door.  Set some  
shields (hold down spacebar until a little glow appears at the end  
of your gun, then release it).  Set like 2-3 shields to be safe.   
When the doors to your right open up, follow your friend right.   
Take the elevator to the bottom.  Walk into the next screen to the  
left, shooting as you go. The aim is to kill a guy as soon as you  
enter the room.  After you kill him, shoot the little light on the  
wall.  Then take the elevator up one floor.  Go left and blow a hole  
in the wall (hold down fire until a large glowing ball appears on  
your gun, and release it). Then run left and stand over the  
teleporter (hole in the floor) and push down.  Then continue to run  
left.  Go up the next teleporter.  (Make sure your bud is with  
you).  Go left through the door.  Your bud will come behind you and  
open a hole in the floor.  Go down it. 
 
Scene 3 - CLLD 
------- 
 
    OK, you're rollin' in the pipes.  I'll tell you the path, you  
just avoid the steam.  Left all the way.  Fall.  Right.  Fall.   
Right.  Fall.  Left.  Fall.  Right.  Fall. 
 
Scene 4 - LBKG 
------- 
 
    Go left and charge you gun.  Shoot through the three walls  
(overload gun technique).  Run right.  Shoot the alien on the  
bridge, and then move to the edge of the brigde.  Jump out and  
you'll land on a ledge.  Shoot a hole in the wall. 
 
Scene 5 - XDDJ 
------- 
 
    Fall down first hole to your right.  Do this again.  You should  
be standing on a balancing rock.  Go right.  Jump over the stalag's  
and then continue going right avoiding the falling rocks.  You  
should encounter some hanging beasties.  You can shoot some and  
they'll go up.  If you can shoot it, use a large phaser blase to  
destroy it.  Continue right avoiding all beasties until you get to a  
wall.  Shoot a hole in it.  
 
Scene 6 - FXLC 
------- 
 
    After shooting a hole in the wall, proceed back left.  When you  
get to where the rocks fall, take the high road, and you'll get to a  
ledge.  Then go one screen right, and shoot at the bird.  Go back  
left and the bird will follow you.  Run and jump off the ledge and  
you'll grab onto the first stalagtite.  Wait here until the beastie  
starts to eat the bird.  Then contiue left on the stalag's by sliding  
up them and then pushing left and fire.  Eventually, you'll be on  
top of the balancing rock. 
 
Scene 7 - KRFK 
------- 
 
    Fall off the left side of the balancing rock and use a large  
laser blast on its base.  Then run up it.  Continue right, jumping  
over the pits as they come.  Then use a large laser blast to shoot  
the foundation out from under the water.  Now run like the wind  
(left), but make sure not to fall in the pits.  After proceeding  
left, you'll be standing on a rock that will get shot up by water  
underneath it.  Now go right.  You'll go up a ramp and then shoot a  
hole in the wall.  Go right, and then up the stairs. Then continue 
to go right.  
 
Scene 8 - KLFB 
------- 
 
    You should be in a room with a bunch of pillars, and your bud  
should be crawling underneath you.  Go right.  Kill the alien.  A  
good strategy to killing these guys is to set up shields, and then  
use a large laser blast to destroy his shield, followed by a quick  
laser blast to kill him.  After killing him, go right and down the  
stairs.  Go left.  Kill the guy.  Then go up the stairs and shoot  
the middle lamp.  You just released you friend.  Now run right and  
continue to run right.  You'll run into an alien.  After he picks  
you up, press fire to kick him where it hurts.  Run toward your gun,  
and then press down.  You'll roll and pick up you gun.  stay  
crouched and just keep shooting.  After you kill the guy, go  
right.  As you enter the room, proceed with caution.  Two guys will  
come, one from either side.  Walk to about the first pillar (no guys  
should be coming yet).  Then set shields to your right. Then run  
right of the shields and set a couple more.  The guys will  
be shooting at you now.  Kill the one to your right, and then the  
one to your left.  Use the killing strategy mentioned earlier.   
Proceed to the right and you will be next to a pit of water. 
 
Scene 9 - TTCT 
------- 
 
Dive into the water.  Swim all the way down, and then to the left.   
On the second screen over, there will be two holes in the rock above  
you.  Go up the one further to the left and you can catch your  
breath.   Then swim straight down (2 screens).  You should be at the  
bottom amongst stalagmites.  Swim right and get out of the water.   
Jump over the little beasties, and shoot the power line.  Then swim  
back to the top of the pit where you first dove in. 
 
Scene 10 - HRTB 
-------- 
 
Get out of the water and go left.  Go up the teleporter, and then up  
the stairs to the left.  Then go right until you get to the room  
with the big alien and three doors between you and him.  Go about  
halfway to the doors and make a shield.  Then go up to the doors and  
they'll open.  Because you made a shield, the guy should start  
rolling grenades.  When he does, back away.  The doors will close  
and the grenades will kill the alien.  Then go through the doors.   
Blow a hole in the next door and continue right.  Go up the  
teleporter and charge your gun.  Go back down it and continue  
right.  You are now at the ceiling level above the guy to the left  
of the pit of water.  If you look at the green glass balls, you can  
see his reflection as he paces.  Squat and shoot so that a ball lands  
on top of him.  Then make your way back to the pit of water.  Swim  
across.  Go right and you'll see the dead alien with shattered glass  
around him.  Keep going right. 
 
Scene 11 - BRTD 
-------- 
 
After going right, you will fall down a pit.  Shoot the door to your  
right with a large laser blast.  Then run right.  Just keep  
running.  You will get to a screen with a gate at the right.  Along  
the ceiling there is an air duct.  Stand under that and keep making  
shields to your left.  Your friend will come and reach his hand down  
the air duct.  Hit your fire button and he will pull you up. 
 
Scene 12 - TFBB 
-------- 
 
Go left, behind the rock.  Then go right.  You will be on a path in 
the background.  Continue right, past the room where your friend has  
been captured.  Then go left into the room and kill the alien  
closest to you.  Just run up, and crouch such that your gun sticks  
thru the shield, and fire.  Then follow your friend right.  Stand at  
the edge of the cliff, and he will throw you across.  Then after he  
jumps and is hanging, jump left.  You will fall and grab onto  
another canopy and swing onto a path.  Put up shields and kill the  
two guys that come.  Then go left. 
 
Scene 13 - TXHF 
-------- 
 
You should be standing by some stairs.  Go left.  Aliens are leaving  
the room.  Run up to the door.  It will open.  Put out your gun, but  
don't shoot.  The guy will stick up his arms.  Then go right.  He  
will then close the door permanently.  Go right and then go up the  
stairs.  Crouch in front of the wall.  Put up a shield and then blow  
up the wall with a large laser blast.  The guy will start to roll  
grenades.  As soon as he starts, run left.  Stand behind him and let  
him keep grenading for a minute or so.  Then kill him.  After his  
bones fall apart, teleport down (you're standing on a teleporter).   
Then put up a bunch of shields and kill the guy shooting at you.   
Then go to the right, over to the tube and press down.  Shoot the  
power line and then go up.  Work you way back to the stairs and go  
down them.  Notice the hole in the ground (grenades anyone?).  Go  
down the hole and proceed to the right. The next screen will go  
dark.  Just keep running.  Guys will shoot at you from under a  
grate.  After you pass the grate, stop.  Walk SLOWLY to the right.   
When the screen changes, the lights will be back on.  Jump over the  
hole and pull on the lever.  Then go down the hole and run to the  
right.  Just keep going right until you get to the wall.  Then press  
up and you will teleport up.  Then walk to the left.  You will go  
thru a door and then your friend will fall.  Follow him to the  
right.  After he teleports, press up and you will teleport.  Then  
follow him to the right and into the spaceship. 
 
Scene 14 - CKJL 
-------- 
 
You're in the spaceship.  The upper right corner of the screen shows  
the ship's control panel.  Only two buttons show.  Press them both.   
Then press the button to the lower left.  A new panel of buttons to  
the left should turn on.  Then press the top four buttons on that  
panel.  A flashing button will appear.  Press that button and you  
will eject. 
 
Scene 15 - LFCK 
-------- 
 
Your pod lands poolside among a swarm of female aliens.  Get out and  
run right.  On the next screen over you will have to kill four  
aliens.  (Shield, shield, big laser, little laser).  After killing  
them, run right.  On the next screen, your friend will bust throught  
the wall.  Follow him right.  A laser will then shoot out the ground  
from under you.  As you fall, another alien catches you.  He then  
kicks you into the next room.  Your friend will come and jump on the  
other alien, and when he does, press right to squirm across the  
floor to a panel of levers.  The alien will throw your friend off  
the ledge and then come after you.  When he's in the center of the  
screen, press your fire button and your will pull the first lever,  
killing the alien.  Quickly, pull the second lever and a door will  
open from above.  Press left to make your way to under the hole.   
When you get there, you will teleport up.  That's the end.  Just  
watch and enjoy. 
 