

       €€€€€            €   €             €€€€€        €€€€€€€€€€€€€€€
       €                €€ €€                €
       €  €€            € € €                €           BBS Version
       €   €            €   €                €
       €€€€€AME         €   €ASTER        €€€€OUNRAL   €€€€€€€€€€€€€€€

          ±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
          ±(C) 1992 Innovative Creations of New Englend TS.     ±
          ±This fully copyrighted document may not be reproduced±
          ±or reposted on any BBS or other electronic retrieval ±
          ±device without the expressed written or transmitted  ±
          ±permission of ICNETS.                                ±
          ±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Welcome to our first issue!  Come on in, the water's fine!
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------




±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE 2±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
                 Vol. 1 No. 1 - April 1 to April 15, 1992

Ace's Angles                                           4
Ask the Game Masters                                   7
Subscription Info                                      8
GMJ Top Pick                                           9
     Batman 1.5: Return of the Joker
Super NES Reviews                                      12
     Super Ghouls 'n Ghosts
     Super Castlevania IV
     Super Bases Loaded
     Hole-In-One Golf
     Final Fantasy II
     Actraiser
GMJ Top Five List                                      21
     YOUR picks for the best games.
Meet the Game Masters                                  22
     A special feature where you can meet the
     Game Masters that make GMJ possible.
Nintendo Reviews                                       25
     Bart vs. the World
     Fantastic Adventures of Dizzy
±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE 3±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
     Trog
     Treasure Master
Genesis Reviews                                        32
     Mario Lemeux Hockey
     Quackshot Starring Donald Duck
Football Party!                                        36
     John Madden '92
     Joe Montana II: Sports Talk Football
     Mike Ditka Football
     Tecmo Super Bowl
Warp Zone                                              43
GMJ Awards '91                                         46
  Who will win a "Gamie"?

Producer: Tony Shubert  Editors: ACE, Mort   Head Writer: G
Writers: G, YOYOMAN, EMAX, EDGE, XMAN, SHADES, ET, STEVE N.,
HAVOC, VIPER, ACE, SCOOP II, MR. X
Offices: Game Master Journal, 59 Germain Ave, Quincy MA.02169




±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE 4±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±

All content, Warp Zone, Game Masters, Ace's Angles, GMJ
and Game Master Journal (c) 1992 Innovative Creations of New
England TS.  Insuperable Sid (c) 1991 Sid Comics, used with
permission.

WE ARE NOT PART OF OR ENDORSED BY: Nintendo of America, Sega
Enterprises, NEC Technologies (Turbo Technologies), Atari
Games, Atari Corp or any other video gaming company.

              €€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€

                              Ace's Angles

  Well I'm back gang with all of the Gossip and stuff you
need to know from the Winter CES!  Well, I didn't go, but
here's what I heard.
  Sonic 2 is coming!  Sega's flagship will be in stores
around June (right after the Summer CES in Chicago).  With
more Sega news, the Mega Drive CD (the one we reported FIRST
here in Ace's Angles last year) will also be here this

±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE 5±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
summer, but will not play the Mega Drive CD games from Asia
or Europe.  According to another magazine, Sonic-CD will come
packaged with the system, which will cost about $200 - $250.
  Word has it that Nintendo is working on a Super NES version
of Donkey Kong, only updated.  Remember Donkey Kong?  The
first video game I ever played (which me and my friends used
to call "DK" when it was the only good game available) my
little cousins play on their NES.  I didn't even know they
made it an 8-bit game!  Anyways, Nintendo is also planning to
release Super Mario 4 for the NES this winter.  It will be
different from Super Mario World, and Yoshi doesn't make an
appearance.  Too bad.  Here's something you won't see in any
other mag for at least 6 months... Super Mario World 2 will
come spring '93!
  The big winner this Christmas was Sega, selling Sonic with
their $150 Genesis, blowing away Nintendo and their Super
NES.  To get more people interested in the S-NES, Nintendo
has lowered the price of it to $180, down 10% from $200 from
Christmas.  People still say that the Super NES is too
expensive, but it comes with two controllers, the Genesis


±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE 6±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
comes with one.  You must but the other controller for $25,
bringing the total cost of a Genesis to $175.  What's $5 for
Mode 7?
  Warp Zone is coming very soon!  It's will began Monday,
February 16, and come out every Monday or Tuesday (depending
on where you live).  Warp Zone will be four pages, and will
cost only a quarter!  It will have something Game Master
Journal has never had... pictures!  You must see Warp Zone!
Ask your local store about it.
  I'm almost done gang, but first... welcome back EMAX!
  Also, I need some advice.  There's this girl... never mind.
  Finally, thanks much to the NQHS Drama Club.  5-3-1 and the
circle was "fun".  NOT!
  That's it, gang.  See 'ya in the Spring!

±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
±           You NEED to see the printed Game Master Journal!           ±
±                               See page 8!                            ±
±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±



±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE 7±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±

                        €€€€€Ask the Game Masters€€€€€

This month we are taking a different approach to Ask the GMs,
this time we're answering general questions, not just games.

NES in stereo?
Dear Game Master Journal,
I'm trying to connect my NES to my stereo, but it only comes
in one speaker.  How can I double the signal?  -Matt DiFicio,
Weymouth

ACE: I'm not quite sure what you are looking for Matt.  If
you want to double the signal, there are amplifiers that run
about $70 to $200 and more.  You can get them at Radio Shack.
If you just want to split the signal, that is the same sounds
in both speakers, a "Y" splitter will do that for you.  These
cost about $2.00, and you can also get them at Radio Shack.

      Have a question or a comment?  Send E-Mail to Emax!  See page 24!


±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE 8±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±

                 DON'T READ THIS!!!!!  DON'T READ THIS!!!!!
    ⁄ƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒø
        The best video game fanzine just keeps on getting better!
     And now, you can get it delivered to your home for only $6 for
      8 issues!  (only 75 cents each issue!) This includes special
                      issues soon to come, such as...
       INSUPERABLE SID ALL-COMIC
       WARP ZONE
       SUMMER DOUBLE ISSUE (32 pages!)
     At least $12 worth of GMJ for only $6!  Send your check to...
                            Game Master Journal
                               Subscriptions
                        59 Germain Ave      Suite 1
                             Quincy, MA. 02169

               Make checks payable to Game Master Journal.
              We will not be responsible of any cash sent.
                 Prices and issue frequency may change.
    ¿ƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒŸ


±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE 9±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±

                            €€€€€GMJ Top Pick€€€€€

Batman Return of the Joker

  Batman returns in his second NES game with a major
graphical and gameplay face-lift in Sunsoft's first psuedo-16
bit games.
  What is the Dark Knight trying to do?  As the title
implies, the Joker has returned.  This time he has some
tough, new friends all of which are gunning to take Batman
out.  These baddies are spread out through seven stages
leading to the Final Battle with the Joker.
  Batman gets powered up in this second game with new
weapons, such as the Cross Bow, Battarang and a Shield-Star.
Batman also has other weapons availoable by holding down the
'A' button he can access more powerful shots.  Certain
weapons work better than others; the Cross Bow is super
powerful, and the Batterang seeks and finds enemies.  The
Caped One has learned new moves, including crouching and
looking up (and over his shoulder), and also has a new slide
attack.  One drawback is that he lost the ability to climb
±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE10±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
walls.
  Throught the game are Batman-back packs.  Collect eight,
and Batman goes Bat-zerk!  He gets a Sonic Neutralizer and
Invincibility.  The neutralizer blazes a path for Batman as
he busts his way through the level untoughed for about seven
seconds.
  Fresh with new moves, higher-quality graphics and more
enemies, Batman 2 is enough for any gamer to go Batty!  -ACE

QUICKSHOTS

˙ The end boss in level 3-3 is easy to beat, just fire away
until he charges at you.  Jump over him and shoot at his back.

˙ The first time you face Joker (level 6-3), he's flying above
you, throwing deadly bubbles at you.  The easiest way to kill
him off is to slide to the right when he goes left, and vice-
versa.  Eventually he stops in the center and gloats.  Move
underneath him and fire away.  When Joker starts to fly
around the bottom of the screen, slide into him to cause some


±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE11±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
serious damage!

˙ The end of the game is easy to defeat.  We won't tell you
how, but here's two hints.  The cross bow inflicts much
damage, and weapons bounce off of walls - 'Nuff said!

ACE: 16-bit graphics on the NES? I love it!  For a large-
sprite game, the controls were extremely responsive.  I
really responsive.  I really thought the games BGM was great!
Sunsoft has given me a reason to keep my NES a bit longer...
Rating... 95

MR. X: The graphics are awesome!  The sound is awesome!  The
whole game is awesome!  Except for the lack of challenge...
NOT!  You'll pull your hair out trying to get to the end.
Once there its a breeze though.  Rent this puppy and see what
the NES can really do!  Rating... 90





±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE12±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±

                          €€€€€Super NES Reviews€€€€€

Super Ghouls 'n Ghosts

  King Aurther must save Guinevere in a classic adventure
quest in Super Ghouls 'n Ghosts by Capcom USA.  She has been
kidnapped by Sardius, the Emperor of Evil, and has been taken
to the Ghoul Realm and the Phantom Zone. You must save her!
  In this eight-level action cart, you must engage the
Creatures of the Undead in a hack-and-slash fight to the
death.  On your way through the stage, hidden treasure chests
may appear.  In these chests may lie armor (which allows you
to be more powerful), or one of several weapons.  You start
with a lance, but you can pick up more powerful weapons
including a crossbow, tri-blade, axe or torch.  If Arthur
finds the Bronze or Golden Armor, these weapons get super
powered-up!
  You start out in the Dead Place, but work your way up
through the Rotting Sea, Deep Chill, Hallway of Ghouls, and
then the Throne Room, where you finally meet Sardius in a
battle to save Guinevere.  -MR. X
±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE13±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
ACE: This game is not much different than the Genesis version
that came out two years ago, except that the BGM and sound
effects are AWESOME!  It sounds like I have an orchestra in
my SNES.  Check out this high quality cart, but be prepared
for the long haul, this one's tough.  Rating... 85

SCOOP II: The game is OK, but monotonous... just run, slash,
run, slash... duh.  The graphics are high quality, but the
hole game slows down to a crawl when too many things are on
the screen at once.  This ruins the game.  The "Parker Lewis
Can't Lose" fade-to-digital is a nice touch.  Rating... 70


Super Castlevania IV

  Get ready, castlevania fans, a new Castlevania is on the
way for your Super NES.  This one features our hero, Simon
Belmont, on yet another quest to defeat Dracula and his
minions.
  You play the role of Simon Belmont, and run through the


±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE14±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
same kind of action as in other Castlevania games, but this
time you can swing across gaps (a la Indiana Jones) by
wrapping your whip around a ring, and you can also stand
still and whip your whip around in any direction.  Another
thing you can do in this game that you can't do in other
games is face the challenge of a new variety of monsters.
  Go Simon!  -EDGE

EDGE: Awesome game.  Superb grafx.  The best Castlevania game
around.  Also the best sound on any Catlevania game.
Rating... 90

ACE: I think this game is awesome!  The play control wasn't
too good, but every thing else was top-of-the-line!  I really
enjoyed when the screen rotates 90 degrees (in a late level)!
My real problem is a NES series going to the S-NES.  Bad
move.  Rating... 90





±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE15±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±

Super Bases Loaded

  Jaleco's first entry into the Super NES market is here, and
it's Super Bases Loaded.
  The object is to pitch a perfect game ("no bonehead plays",
as the game states) against a "level 5" team.  This system is
unlike other Bases Loaded games in that there is no league
set-up and no password system.
  The perspective is just one of several changes made to this
cart.  Home is now accessed by "UP", as opposed to "DOWN" on
most games.  Also, you can head off of a base with out
stealing the next one.
  Graphically speaking, SBL takes baseball games to where
they have never gone before.  The game rotates around the
pitcher's mound between innings, and then shows the
scoreboard.
  After the game is over, the SNES shows you your rating, on
a scale of 1 to 100.  Do you have what it takes to pitch a
perfect game?  -MR. X


±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE16±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
ACE: The game is "just simply the best", except for the
switched perspective and the rating system.  The actual game
is good, but the frills stink.  I played against YOYOMAN and
we had a great time!  Rating... 85

MR. X: This game is really a disappointment.  Sequels should
only be made if there is an improvement.  There was none in
Super Bases Loaded.  The game's reversed view is terrible.
The game is just flawed beyond belief.  Rating... 75


Hole In One Golf

  The Super NES' first golf game grabs some attention with
interesting features and add-ons.  Hal America's Hole In One
Golf features a tourney, practice, doubles and a password
system to keep your games going.
  Of course, the game has 18 different holes, each with
different problems to face.  Sometimes the hole is
surrounded by sand traps, others by water.


±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE17±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
  You can play by yourself or with a friend in Hole In One.
You can play "VS. Hal", and if you defeat him, he'll give you
a password to let you use his special clubs.  The tournament
pits you against 64 other players in a "stroke play" contest.
Who ever has the least amount of strokes at the end wins!
  A special feature in this cart is the 3-D mode.  In between
shots, you can pause the game and look at the topography of
the area a la PGA Golf for the Genesis.  Another is the
replay you can access if you sink an eagle, albatross or a
Hole-In-One.  -ACE

ACE:  I enjoyed this game, but it wasn't worth the $60 price
tag.  The fly-by views are fantastic!  I liked the system
used to hit the ball, much better than that of PGA and Arnold
Palmer.  Great game, but not one of my favorites.  Rating...
85

MR. X: Wow!  Big deal.  I would not have played this game, but
I was through picking my teeth, so...  this game stunk. The
real game is boring, the SNES is almost sleep-inducing!  40


±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE18±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
Final Fantasy II

  You are Cecil, Dark Knight of Baron, and you are out to
find why your king is stealing crystals from innocent
people.
  In this game it is hard to distinguish friend from foe as
you battle from an ever-changing group of allies.  You and
your allies go on the quest with an array of different
weapons and skills and magic spells.
  When you walk around town, its a good idea to talk to
everyone and go in every door, because you can find new
information and items.
  Nintendo's successful RPG series continues with Final
Fantasy II.  -EDGE

MR. X: I know RPG's, and I know that this game is incredible!
The graphics in this one set a new standard in S-NES games.
I didn't quite follow the plot, though.  Rating... 85

EDGE: Dazzling graphics.  Tremendous sound.  This game has it
all!  The best storyline I've ever seen.  WOW!  Rating... 90

±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE19±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±

Actraiser

  Have you ever wanted to rule the world?  You get your
chance in Actraiser.
  This is a CRPG in which you must develop lands, defeat
monsters, and make your people's lives better.  Before you
can do that, you must go down to the planet and battle some
monsters.  Defeat them all, and two people appear.  You must
guide them to develop land and grow crops.  Every now and
then they'll speak to you (give the gamer help), and ask that
you clear some neutral obstacles (such as flooding a desert).
  While you develop lands, monsters keep coming the monster
tries to attack them to push them off, but more come.  The
people must go to the lairs and seal them.
  Eventually you'll clear the level.  But you're not done
yet; there is another battle sequence to defeat before you
can go to the next cite.  Defeat six cites and you have to
face an enemy boss as ugly as the Devil himself.
  If you've head doesn't get too big from having the SNES
call you "master", good luck and have an Actraiser.  -ACE

±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE20±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
ACE: I have learned one thing; CRPGs are the best kind of
game out there!  As I sit here typing away, I can't help but
thinking that the SES was calling me Master!  Ha!  The
graphics are great, and it sounds like an orchestra.
Rating... 90

MR. X: This game is pretty good, but I didn't like the RPG
aspects.  The battle parts were not enough to carry this
game, but is still OK.  Rent this one, the game's a piece of
cake.  Rating... 70


  ØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆ
  ØØØØØ      In the April 15 edition of Game Master Journal:         ÆÆÆÆÆ
  ØØØØØNES: Mega Man 4, Quattro Adventure, Quattro Sports, Home AloneÆÆÆÆÆ
  ØØØØØGENESIS: Winter Games, Toe Jam + Earl, Streets of Rage        ÆÆÆÆÆ
  ØØØØØSUPER NES: Paperboy 2, Wonderers From Y's III, Super Off Road ÆÆÆÆÆ
  ØØØØØSPECIAL REPORT: Game Gear, one year later                     ÆÆÆÆÆ
  ØØØØØALSO: Warp Zone, Ask the Game Masters, GMJ Top Ten, and more! ÆÆÆÆÆ
  ØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØØÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆÆ


±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE21±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±


       €€€€€            €   €             €€€€€        €€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€
       €                €€ €€                €         €               €
       €  €€            € € €                €         € TOP FIVE LIST €
       €   €            €   €                €         €               €
       €€€€€AME         €   €ASTER        €€€€OUNRAL   €€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€

          NES                 GENESIS              SUPER NES
1  Tecmo Super Bowl     NHL Hockey             Super Wrestlemania
2  Monopoly             Streets of Rage        Pilotwiings
3  Bart vs. the World   Sonic the Hedgehog     Super Baseball Simulator 1.000
4  M.C. Kids            John Madden '92        Home Alone
5  Battletoads          Toe Jam + Earl         Lemmings



                     To give us your picks for the TOP 5,
                      send E-Mail to Emax!  See page 24.



±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE22±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
Meet the Game Masters

We here at GMJ have receive many letters concerning the
people behind the scenes, and the REAL names of our writers.
We can tell you their names (for fear of prosecution), but
here's the background on all of the Game Masters.

Tony Shubert: President of Innovative Creations of New
England, editor of Game Master Journal.  I go to North Quincy
High, and I am involved with volleyball, drama and the school
newspaper, "The North Star".  I've been playing video games
since 1979.  I puzzle games and combat RPG's (like Actraiser)

Mort: Editor-in-chief of GMJ.  He helped to put the Hubble
Telescope in space (no kidding!), and plays mostly IBM
computer games.  He provides most of the technical support
needed for GMJ.

G: Head writer.  Is a Junior at BC High in Dorchester.
Enjoys basketball, baseball and other sports.  Has been
playing video games since 1987.  Enjoys sports games,
especially Electronic Arts' Genesis games.
±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE23±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
ACE: One of the two original Game Masters.  Not much is
known about ACE's background, except he has spent time in
Colorado, Florida, California and Washington.  While in those
places he met various "stars" of video gaming, including
Howard Phillips.  Was the regional finalist of the Nintendo
World Championships in Worchester in 1990 (he lost to Thor
Ackerlund, the eventual Grand Champion).

Neil Bowman: Artist and writer of Insuperable Sid.  Excellent
drummer who in his spare time draws Sid.

THE WRITERS
Without these people, GMJ would not exist.

MR. X: Junior at NQHS, also on the volleyball team.  Owns
Defender (the arcade game, the real thing).
XMAN: Junior at NQHS.  Enjoys wrestling and track.  First
person to ever beat ACE in Ice Hockey for the NES.
YOYOMAN: G's brother.  Freshman at Xervarian in Weymouth.
Loves tacos.
STEVE N.: Junior at NQHS also.  Makes it a point to arrive to
school 30 minutes early every day.
±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE24±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±

ET: Track master at North Quincy.  Writes Game Boy reviews
for GMJ.
SHADES: One of our three new writers, goes to BC High.
Pretends he can play basketball.
VIPER: Genesis writer new to GMJ, coming from Quincy.
Finalist in GMJ Super Tourney 2.
EDGE: Our third new writer writes exclusively Super NES
reviews.  Another Super Tourney 2 finalist.

      ****************************************************************
         IF YOU WANT TO WRITE FOR GMJ, JUST SEND SOMETHING TO THE
         ADDRESS ON PAGE 3.  ALONG WITH YOUR ARTICLE, SEND YOUR
                   Name     Address    Phone Number
         BBS' Handle (for E-Mail, and be sure you say what BBS!)
         When we can call (we can't publish until we call you!)
                          OR.....   E-Mail us!
         Send E-Mail to EMAX on the following BBS':
         Channel 1, Datanet Connection, Games Galaxy, and more to come!
         Send E-Mail to EMAX THE GAME MASTER on: 19th Hole.
     *****************************************************************

±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE25±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±

                          €€€€€Nintendo Reviews€€€€€

Bart vs. the World

  The Bart-Man.  Barter-ino.  The Bart-meister.  Bartholemew
J. Simpson is travelling around the world in his second NES
game.  He won an art contest (with a lousy drawing) on the
Krusty the Clown show.  The contest was sponsored by the
Springfield Nuclear Power Plant, and was rigged so that Mr.
Burns, the owner of the plant, world be rid of the Simpsons.
The winner of the contest won a world-wide trip, which Burns
hoped Bart + Co. wouldn't return.
  Your quest begins in China, where you must find a map, then
skateboard on the Great Wall of China, and then defeat one of
Burns' Chinese Cousins.  Along the way you can find Lisa, and
if you do she'll help you at the end of the level.
  After defeating Chu Man Burns, you must go to the North
Pole, Italy, and eventualy back to the USA.
  Some of the power-ups the Bart-man can get are large
diamonds, which give a tree life, apples and other throwing
things, and Krusty symbols.  Enough of them and Bart starts
±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE26±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
to fly.  If you need more of these, go to the bonus games
available, including concentration, a slot machine and a
shell game.  -MR. X


MR. X: Great game!  This game is paced just right... not too
fast or slow.  The switch from the format in Bart vs. the
Space Mutants was unnecessary, but didn't ruin the game.  The
play control was lousy at times, though and kept this game
from getting a 95.  Rating... 85

STEVE N.  Well, I give this game two thumbs up.  In my
opinion, this game simply over-rules the last Bart Simpson
game.  Because it challenged me to keep on playing even
after I've been defeated so many times.  Enjoy the thrill of
becoming the Bart-man!  So run and check this game out!
Rating... 90





±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE27±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
Trog

  It's Bloop against the Trogs in Trog for the NES by
Acclaim.
  You take on the role of Bloop, a little dino-mite dinosaur,
who must take his eggs back from the Trogs, who stole them
all, then he must get back to home, so the eggs area
protected.  There is only one thing stopping you, TROGS!
These terrible, huge, and nasty dinosaurs stole the eggs from
Bloop and his clan.
  Of course, Bloop must have some form of defense.  Every now
and then, a Power Flower appears.  If Bloop eats one of
these, look out!  Bloop becomes a huge dinosaur, even larger
than the Trogs!  Here's Bloop's chance to score points and
eat the bad guys.
  An interesting feature is the ability to play doubles in
Trog.  Bleep then comes and helps out Bloop.  If either gets
power-ed up, they can eat each other!




±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE28±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
ACE: This game is basically a rehash of Pac-Man.  Duh.  Come
on.  This game is from the same company that made Double
Dragon and Bart Simpson!  Please!  The 2-player mode was a
nice touch, but not enough to save this doomed cart.
Rating... 50

SCOOP II: The game is not too good.  In fact, it's a lousy
game.  It's just a rehash of Pac-Man, 10 years later.
Couldn't Acclaim work on Double Dragon 4 instead?  The only
reason I didn't give it a 30 is because of the two player
mode.  Rating... 45



Fantastic Adventures of Dizzy

  Camerica's second Gold Series game is here and packs a
punch!  The Fantastic Adventures of Dizzy features Dizzy, an
egg-sploring egg who must save Daisy from the evil Wizard
Zaks.  Dizzy lives in the Kingdom of Zakeria, in a tree
house.  From there your quest begins.

±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE29±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
  This game is non-linear, that is, you can go basically
anywhere.  But you have to collect 100 stars sitting around
waiting for you, before you can enter the cloud castle in
which Zaks presides.  You start off in the Yolkfolk's secret
village, and work your way to the mines.  From there you can
go on to Keldor or to the Crystal Falls (you actually need to
go to both places).  In order for you to go on past many
places, you must first get an item.  For instance, you need a
plank to go over the pit of spikes.  You can only carry three
items at a time, so don't carry dead weight.
  Along the way you can find some of your friends, and
they'll help you along.  Dozy, Dylan, Dora, Denzil and Grand
Dizzy are all there waiting for you.  You can also find bonus
stages, one in which you must re-arrange a scroll after it's
scrambled.  Do this and get a free Dizzy, and you'll need it.
You only get three lives and no continues.
  The U.K.'s #1 video game hero comes to the States in this
Fantastic Adventure of Dizzy!




±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE30±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
ACE: This game is great!  When I first got it, it wasn't
compatible, so I moved the switch in the back of the game,
and BINGO!  The graphics are cartoon-like, but don't let it
throw you off.  This game's challenging, too hard in fact.  A
battery back-up or a password screen would've been nice.
Other than that, YES!  Rating... 95

MR. X: The game is pretty good, in that it's an adventure
game.  As far as they go, this ones the best.  I don't go for
these types of games that much, but, I enjoyed this game!
I think this game is the first one in 3 years that I haven't
beaten!  WOW!  Rating... 90

Treasure Master

  Scooter finds an old gold coin, tucks it under his pillow,
find out about "The Legend of the Treasure Master", and
undertakes a quest of his mind in Treasure Master.  All of
this is nice, but that isn't what will make this game
memorable.  The $10,000 cash you can win will do that!
  Only Game Masters should play this game, because it is a

±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE31±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
toughie!  You get three men and no continues, so beating this
game is tough enough.  But it gets even worse when you find
there are no warps, and you only get four hits per life.
  There are five worlds, and then the prize world.  The prize
world is accessed by a password (see below).  You start in
the Islands, where you must find items that let you get other
items, and so on.  All throughout the stage are sharks and
caterpillars, as well as dragonflies, and they are all after
you.  To get to some things you need bombs, and the bombs are
endless.  Once you leave the screen where the bomb machine
is, you can go back and get another!
  After that you'll go on to the Moon, and eventually inside
your NES!  World six is the Prize World.  Finish the game,
call a 1-900 number, and win $10,000!  Easy?  Not!

ACE: This game is one of the hardest games I've played for
the NES.  Add that to the fact that you can win 10 thousand
bucks, and you have one tough challenge.  The game's graphics
are nice, but with limited backgrounds.  Buy this for the
fun, or just for the cash!  Rating... 90


±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE32±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
MR. X: Money, money, money.  Is life all about money?  I
think that this contest is a joke.  I'm not going to spend
$50 on the game and $5 on a phone call, only to find that I
didn't win.  Great game, though it could've had more power-
ups.  Rating... 85

                     €€€€€Genesis Reviews€€€€€

Mario Lemeux Hockey

  Once again Electronic Arts beats Sega in the sports game
department.  I cannot help but compare this game to NHL
Hockey (perhaps one of the best games for the Genesis.)
  This game has some features that would have made NHL a
better game, including stats.  This game has an incredible
number of stats, including passes completed, number of goal
posts hit, and checks thrown, just to name a few,  There are
a total of 14 pages of off the wall stats.  (I think they
made up a few.)
  Another great feature is an options screen which allows you
to fight against another opponent or take penalty shots
against the goalie.
±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE33±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
  But this game does have some faults.  First it does not use
pro teams, and with the exception of Mario Lemeux there are
no pro players named.  Also, you can't change the speed of
your shots.  All of your shots are at the same rate of speed,
so you can not take a 90 mph slapshot as it claims in the
game write-up.  It's difficult to score; rarely ever scoring
on anything other than a rebound off the goalie.  -BAR

BAR: Overall not a bad game, but still needs some
improvement.  The graphics are only average.  Not even the
title screen was good.  Play control was busy.  I preferred
the vertical view of NHL.  Rating... 80

MR. X: Stats, stats, stats... is that all to hockey?  Stats
such as "goal posts hit" and "passes completed" are just
plain silly.  Although there were glimpses of a great game
(the face-offs and penalty shots were awesome!), the overall
picture wasn't pretty.  Give me NHL.  Rating... 75




±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE34±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
Quackshot starring Donald Duck

  Quackshot by Sega is an adventure starring Donald and Daisy
Duck.  The story all starts when Donald was looking through
some books in the library.  A piece of paper falls on
Donald's head, and it's from one of the books.  It's a
treasure map from King Garuzia.  He has hidden a treasure
somewhere on Earth.  Donald thinks he could be rich if he
finds the treasure, so off he goes.  One problem... Big Bad
Pete and his gang listens in, and give chase.
  In his adventure Donald and his nephews must go to
Duckburg, Mexico and beyond.  He lives in Duckburg, but now
it's full of thugs trying to get him.  From there he goes to
Mexico.  Here there are exploding cacti, bubbling quicksand
scorpions, buzzards and bees.  From there he goes to a
Viking ghost ship, the South Pole and Egypt on his quest for
the treasure.
  Some of the weapons Donald uses are Plungers, the popcorn
shooter and the bubble shooter.  Plungers are used for
stunning the bad guys or for climbing walls.  The popcorn


±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE35±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
shooter can stop almost anything.  The bubble shooter is used
for barricades and the like.
  Help Donald find the treasure and check out Quackshot.  -
VIPER

VIPER: I highly recommend this game.  I liked the graphics
especially.  The storyline was OK.  I liked some places and
especially liked the obstacles Donald went through.  If you
like excellent graphic games like Castle of Illusion or
Fantasia I highly recommend Quackshot.  Rating... 85

ACE: This game is no big deal.  The graphics are much like
Castle of Illusion.  The game can become methodical, run
shoot get something, run... it just gets boring.  The game is
a toughie, so Game Masters should only apply.  Rating... 75







±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE36±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±

                    €€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€
                    €€€€€      Football Party!     €€€€€
                    €€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€

Joe Montana Football II: Sports Talk Football

  "Welcome to Joe Montana Sports Talk Football!" is the voice
message you hear as you power up the sequel to the best-
selling Joe Montana for your Genesis.  Be prepared.
  Sega decided to completely revamp JMF, and they came up
with this sequel.  For instance, the view is horizontally
scrolling, not vertical.  There are both artificial and
natural turfs, and play selection is different.  But the two
most noticeable differences are the "zoom-in" mode and the
play-by-play announcer.
  After the quarterback crosses the line of scrimmage, passes
or hands off the ball, the game "zoom"s to the action, making
everything two times as large and making everything more
realistic looking.
  On every play you hear the Sports Talk announcer.  He gives
both the play-by-play and the color commentary.  His sayings
±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE37±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
are not very repitious, either.  Just don't expect too much
emotion from a machine.
  The variety of plays and formations are outstanding.  If
you include the passes, runs, and the "flips" of each (the
same play, only reversed) there are over 70!
  If you've got what it takes, go for the season.  Be top in
the division and you might make it to the Sega Bowl!

ACE: The game is absolutely incredible!  "Pay Day!"  Like
most games, the fun part is playing with a friend.  The zoom-
ins are awesome!  How about Sports Talk Hockey?  Rating... 90

MR. X: This game may be Game of the Year.  High quality, and
the zoom is flawless.  The passing system didn't have to be
messed with though.  Enjoy!  Rating... 95







±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE38±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
John Madden Football '92

  The sequel to Electronic Arts' best-seller is John Madden

'92, and it's here to stay.
  The game is similar to JMF '91.  There is a playoff system,
the passing system is the same (three windows accessed with A
B or C) and there is a playoff system, similar to the one
used in NHL Hockey, another Electronic Arts hit.  But there
is so much more in JMF '92.
  One of the new features is the real NFL Teams and players'
numbers are used.  The players act like they do in real life
(a la NHL).  Don't try throwing the bomb with Hugh Millen or
trying to get by Bruce Smith.  Another new feature is the
ability to choose the pitch (playing surface) and the weather
that you play in.  There are tons of new stats displayed
during half-time, and you can even injure other players!
  In Electronic Arts patented replay mode, you can see the
play over and over again, rewind, slo-mo and playback as your
options.  Awesome!
  If you haven't seen John Madden Football, do your Genesis
and yourself a favor and play this hot cart.  -ACE
±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE39±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
ACE:  This game is just as good as Joe Montana Football.  he
replay is great.  I like the playoff system they used.  What
is EA's secret?  High quality sport games that combine
graphics, gameplay and fun.  Wow!  Rating... 90

MR. X: Fantastic game!  The game is one of the best.  I liked
John's little comments that preceeded each game.  The game is
a little unrealistic though.  Some people can not get tackled
even when there are all 11 people on his tail.  Well, you
can't get it all.  Rating... 90


Mike Ditka Power Football

  Everybody's getting into the football act, even Mike Ditka.
The coach for the Chicago Bears has a Genesis game, and it's
made by Ballistic.
  Power Football features all of the real cities of the NFL
teams, but the names of the players and the teams are
fictional.  The camera used to see the game is in the "end
zone" behind the quarterback, using a 45 degree angle to view
of the action.
±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE40±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
  One of the features that set this game apart form other
football games is the passing system.  There are two modes -
real-time and freeze frame.  Real time is the mode used in
most games, while freeze frame shows all of the receivers,
one at a time, while all of the action is on "pause".  One
drawback is the screen "jumps" to the receiver you have
selected before you actually throw the ball, so if you don't
like that receiver, and try to change to another, you may get
sacked, and wouldn't see the linebacker coming.
  This massive 8-meg game has both a season and a password
system so you can pick up your action later.  In this game
is digitized voices of Jam Tunney, an NFL referee for 31
years.  -ACE

ACE: This is the worst football game for the Genesis I've
ever played.  Come on.  Couldn't Ballistic come up with a
better 8-meg game?  The voices of "First Down" was nice, but
JMF II's "Sports Talk" was much better.  The passing system
stinks.  The rating I'm giving is basically charity.
Rating... 50


±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE41±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±


MR. X: The only power in Power Football is the opening
graphics.  Please.  This game is about as exciting as
watching paint dry.  The scrolling is very choppy.  The
passing is erotic, you miss wide open catches, yet make one
handed-grabs being double-teamed on the next play?  Sorry,
but this one is just plain lousy.  Rating... 35



Tecmo Super Bowl

  After four years of waiting, the sequel to Tecmo Bowl
finally comes to your NES.
  TSB features similar game play to it's predecessor, in that
the characters on-screen are not too large.  But you can see
most of the screen with it's high overhead view of the field.
  Included in this cart is every single NFL starter and
backup, using the real teams and players' names.  If you play
the Denver Broncos, look for Elway to drop the bomb.  The
players act like their true-to-life counterparts.  There are
±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE42±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
a few missing, though, such as Randall Cunningham and Jim
Kelly.  (These players have special licenses, so Tecmo didn't
include them.)
  Something new is the battery back-up.  This allows stats to
be kept in just about every category imagineable.  There is
also a season that needs no passwords!
  Teams can be either "man" or "com"puter controlled, or they
can be "coa"ched by a human, with the play controlled by the NES.
  Good luck finding this game, though.  Because it is sold
out and renting at almost a 95% rate.  -SCOOP II

ACE: This is the BEST NES football game on the market.  Other
than the fact that the players are small on the screen, this
game is perfect!  The cinema screens that are shown after a
TD are awesome!  You won't be mad you bought or rented
Tecmo Super Bowl, trust me!  Rating... 95

MR. X: This game is great!  A perfect sequel to Tecmo Bowl.
The characters on the main screen are too small, but other
than that, it's great!  Maybe they could have turned off that
BGM... it was beginning to get on my nerves.  Awesome playing
against a friend!  Rating... 90
±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE43±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±


                           €€€€€ Warp  Zone €€€€€


Here is the hints and tips you need to bust your favorite
games.  If you have one, write to the address below.

KEY: A B C TL TR X Y I II ST SL RUN are buttons
     U D L R are controller directions
     1 2 are controllers (unless specified, use controller 1)
     [codes in brackets] press and hold

Doublew Dragon III (NES): Continue Codes
Rounds 1 to 3- U R D L A B
Rounds 4 to 6- U D L R A B
Rounds 7 to 9- Using 2 A A B B D U R L

Lock 'n Chase (Game Boy): Extra Levels
When on title screen, type A A B B A B B ST.
This will put you on level 7-1

±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE44±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±


Loopz (NES): Passwords for Game C
Stage 6   XPO
Stage 11  JGS
Stage 16  ASL
Stage 21  PDS
Stage 26  WKK
Stage 31  YLY

Bad Dudes (NES): 63 Men
On title screen... 2 B A D U D U 1 ST

Ice Hockey (NES): Super Codes
both 1 and 2 hold [A B SL].  While held, 1 ST.
If used on Title Screen, no goalies.
If used on configuration screen, frictionless puck.
If used on both you get both effects.




±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE45±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
Super Monaco GP (Genesis): Password
to race 15 use this code.
0Q76 2ILM F200 0000
0010 H10F B324 5D76
CA89 EGC1 0000 0002
0000 0000 F200 2CAC

Cyberball (NES and Genesis): Password
Take the S.F. Hit Men to the championship!  Use
ULBB-B5PS-OF4I as your password.

Get a free subscription to Warp Zone by giving us your tips
and tricks for the Warp Zone.  If we print your code, you
win!  Send them to...
   Game Master Journal
   Warp Zone
   59 Germain Avenue   Suite 1
   Quincy, MA. 02169




±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE46±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
               Game Master Journal Awards 1991 - The "Gamies"

This is GMJ's first full year of production in pinted form,
and our first BBS issue.and we've decided to start a new
tradition... the Gamies.  A Gamie can only be given out to
a game released in 1991.  In each of the main systems
reviewed in GMJ including the NES, Super NES and Genesis,
there are several categories.  This month we'll give the
nominees for each system, and you can vote.  (See below)

Best Overall Game - Which game was the best produced for each
system in '91?  This was the best of the best, and must be a
high-quality game that no other can even touch.

Best Sport Game - In this group you're looking for the game
which best re-created the sport in which you played.  Play-
control is a plus here.

Best Adventure Game - In Adventure, we mean a game like
"Link", not "Dragon Warrior".  Find a piece, battle monsters,
use the piece, etc., is what you'd do in this game.

±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE47±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±


Best Role Playing Game - Games like Dragon Warrior is what
you'd consider here.  Menu driven ("Fight, Run, Use") and
text heavy, RPGs are followed by many people.

Best Combat-Role Playing Game - Basically take out the
menus and put in hand-to-sword combat and you're all set!

Best Action Game - What game best copies Super Mario Bros.?
That's almost what this one comes down to.  Not too much
logic, but heavy on the run/jump action is what's here.

Best Simulation - The best one in this category makes you
think you're not playing a game, but instead flying a plane
or moving a tank.

Best Racing Game - Which game makes you feel like Michael
Andretti or Tom Petty?  Look for a game that challenges your
nerves and pleases your eyes.


±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE48±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
Best Puzzler - Which game makes you strain your brain and
think rather than pound away at the buttons?  Which game had
you playing until 3 am?  That's a great puzzler.

Newest Innovation: Which game put a different spin on games
more than any other?  Or at least tried to?  (This covers all
systems.)

Best Add-on, Portables: Which accessory made your Game Boy,
Game Gear or TurboExpress more of a success?  Did it make the
screen bigger, better, or what?

Best Add-on, Consoles: There were some real jems in this
category... things that saved your place or even changed the
game completely!  These must directly affect game play.

Best Graphics (8-bit): What game in '92 had the best screens?
Best Graphics (16-bit): Same as above, for the SNES +
Genesis.



±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE49±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
Best Sound: Games that have bad sound usually stink.  The
opposite can be said... games with great sounds are usually
high-quality.  Which one caught your eye (or ear)?

Game of the Year 1991: What was the best game of '91?  These
include all of the systems, home and portable.  Pick the
correct one and you can win prizes (see below).

Best Overall Game: (must be from this list)
NES - Tecmo Super Bowl, Batman Return of the Joker,
Battletoads, Micro Machines
Genesis - NHL Hockey, Sonic the Hedgehog, Sword of
Vermillion, Toe Jam + Earl
Super NES - Super Mario World, Pilotwings, F-Zero, Super
Baseball Simulator 1.000

The rest of the categories can be any game.
Write down your choices and send them to...
  Game Master Journal
  59 Germain Ave.           OR E-Mail them (see page 24)
  Quincy, MA. 02169
  ATTN: Game of the Year
±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±PAGE50±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±


The first 50 people who send in their choices will receive an issue of
Warp Zone #1.  If you pick the most popular game, you will be placed in
a drawing for a 6-issue subscription to the printedGame Master Journal.
Entries must be received by April 20th.  Good luck!


                Here comes the legal stuff!!!!!!!

   ±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±
     This document may be freely downloaded if all of the following
     conditions are true:
       A: If your BBS carries Game Master Journal legally,
       B: If your BBS allows you to download,
       C: No alteration to the document (as a whole or parts of) has
             been made and the copyright stays on the document,
       D: You do not repost on another BBS without express written or
             transmitted permission of ICNETS or U.S. Datanet.
   ±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±

   (c) 1992 Innovative Creations of New England TS.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                